---
layout: post
title: EcoEcon 101
image: /assets/oregonian-charter-reform/ballot-image.png
published: false
---

Years ago I was considering going back to school to get a masters in economics. My undergrad was in "digital media arts" and so the academic advisor recommended I take a couple lower level (undergrad) micro and macro classes to prepare. My son had just been born (TODO true?) and I was working at the time as an editor and video producer as well as teaching film classes at night. But I put in the work to graph the utility preference curves, supply and demand, etc.

(TODO photos from notebook)

I kept waiting for the "real stuff", for the theory and math to escalate to match the complexity of the real economy as we experience it. The rubble of th economic mess of 2008 was still fresh in my mind. Around that time books like Freakonomics had become popular (TODO check) and Dan Ariel's (TODO spell) Predictably Irrational. So I was curious about the real decisions people make even though we consider that "irrational" economically.

Finally near the end of these classes I asked my professor when we'd cover behavioral economics instead of toy models with illusions of mathematical purity yet none of the richness of reality. He shyly told me the whole department was focused on "traditional" economics (Neoclassical) with the advanced masters level classes focused on econometrics. He thought maybe one other professor mentioned alternatives, like behavioral economics, in one class. This was not the department I was looking for.

At that time foundational ideas like fully "rational" agents seemed totally contrary to everyone I knew (but maybe I only ever met irrational people). I didn't have the words or mental models of what I thought might be a more reasonable way to study economics, I was looking to the closest experts to learn, but I didn't want to pause my career for something so abstract. I wanted tools to understand, fold in new data, and hopefully predict or manage based on some scientific understanding. 

Wandering and learning on my own the last few years has finally landed me on what I was looking for years ago: ecological economics. 

> You can't have exponential growth forever on a finite planet.

My ongoing study of complexity pairs well with the systems thinking of folks like Steven Keen, Erickson, and William Rees. 

Steve Keen's work ruthlessly, and thoroughly, dismembers the broken assumptions at the core of neoclassical thinking. Erickson's book is for the more gentle takedown.

> Robert Kennedy on GDP

Where I hope this leads me is a more robust model of how the economy actually works framed within the (obvious) physical limits of our planet.

I'd like to include more from the Origin of Wealth and how he also takes down neoclassical economics but lands more on complexity. I would like to re-read some of that to get a sense of what Keen and the Santa Fe guy differ. I think I lean more in the direction of where Eric B. from Santa Fa is headed because he seems to keep a lot of the good parts about innovation in his thinking about economic futures. While Keen is off waylaid by dumb ideas like MMT. Nate from the Great Simplification has a great bit about how MMT misses the problem with limitless financial claims on finite resources. Which is the core problem of our future and probably always has been.